# INFO 340 Project

Group 13: John Boyle, Shriyansh Sharma, and Zulkifli Sales

Date: 07/27/2021

Problem/Data Domain:

Our project idea is a web application for the purpose of exercise and nutrition benefits. Oftentimes for those wanting to get into exercising or dieting, it’s difficult to keep track of all the information you learn, and it’s difficult to find a place where you can consolidate the information to create an effective regiment.
An information problem related to exercising and healthy lifestyle choices that is unaddressed is the vast amounts of information related to these topics, with a lack of consolidation and understanding. It’s daunting for beginners to get into an exercising or dieting lifestyle with so much information thrown at them. One previous attempt to solve this problem is the website Fitness Blender. It mixes the ideas of exercising and nutrition balancing online, and offers lots of videos and explanations on their guidelines. However, one reason why this website does not achieve in solving the problem stated earlier is because the website does not feel very personal. It has great information and video essays on working out, even for beginners, but it puts it in a one size fits all type of schematic, and it’s easy for it to feel not very personal, and overall unmotivating.

App Description:
The users of this application are anybody with a desire to gain a healthier lifestyle. Our goal will be to give important information to these people on a personal level. The users will be viewing lots of different types of information. This includes different workout strategies, forms, and nutrition statistics. These will come in the form of links to reliable sources.
What the users will do with this web app is to improve upon their current lifestyle choices. This includes learning more about how they can begin exercising, begin dieting, and assisting them with creating a plan for action. Our goal will be to personalize it for the user and make each person come out with a unique plan based on their goals and personal limitations. The first interactive feature that we want to implement is the ability for users to seek out reliable information through our website. This will be done by linking to external resources with reliable information in a consolidated fashion based on topic. The second interactive feature will be to have users be able to create a lifestyle regiment based off of the information they find on the website. This can be a workout plan, nutritional diet, or even something as simple as meditating for 30 minutes per day.
Using this app will help solve our chosen problem because it will be a place to go when you want to get a healthier lifestyle, with an easy to understand flow of information and calls to action. Those who are just starting to approach a healthier lifestyle are often daunted by the amounts of information, sometimes conflicting, and vast amounts of different techniques and theories. Our web app acts as a solution to this by providing a consolidated place of information and planning tools to get started on a healthier life even for very beginners. As students who often lose track of their diet and exercise, we know how important it is to maintain a healthy mindset in order to function at your very best. We want to promote happier lifestyles.
